Bel vasak is spokeswoman for the
Palestine red cresant and she joins us
now from rala thanks very much for being
with us first of all can you tell us
what is happening in Al Goods where you
have a number of Staff we know that this
Hospital in the last couple of days has
had to stop functioning because of a
lack of
fuel good evening thanks for having me
to days ago or 3 days ago the alot
Hospital went out of service due to
running out of a fuel the situation
inside the hospital is dire catastrophic
there is around 300 people who are from
medical staff patients injured people
wounded people and their families they
had stock inside the hospital they are
ped unable to go out of the hospital and
no one even can get into the hospital
yeserday uh we have failed to evacuate
our teams from inside the hospital
because basically under such circum
stances they are even feel helpless they
can't afford taking care of the patients
and wounded people which are their lives
into rest as well as even very basic
humanitarian need are not available
we're talking about food water even
running water for the hygiene um and to
wash so basically the situation
unbearable no one can even live under
such circumstances and uh just a couple
an hour ago I have received the notific
ation from our colleagues in Gaza um the
evacuation process start hopefully uh in
the coming few minutes we were here that
it went successful but the last H news I
heard as the 300 people along with the
staff patients wounded people were able
to evacuate many have to walk by foot
because we don't have enough vehicles
and we use the vehicles the ambulances
for our wounded people and patients and
now they are in the process of being
checked and searched by Israeli military
occupation forces hope hopefully they
can pass to so they will be evacuating
to South to be treated and and give
Health Care Services in one of the
hospitals in the South I just want to uh
just ask quickly what where are these
people going you say they're evacuating
from Al coulds but where are they
going yeah they they they are going to
um one of the hospitals in the South I'm
not sure which hospital they are going
to be taken to but basically as you know
there's no way none of the hospitals now
are operating almost in Gaza so
basically there's only one Hospital
which has two doctors and no way it has
the capacity to receive our patients so
the only option is to take our patients
wounded people and the staff to one of
the hospitals that are still operating
uh in the South this is the plan because
basically Ally we are over one week Al's
hospital has been completely isolated
all roads have been enclosed from all
areas with complete cut of communication
as well as Internet so now this is the
only avable solution which uh which has
been done and which with the struggle
because basically even yesterday Israel
again occupation forces isolated the
hospital and started shooting um and
there was strong bombardments which
risked the of our patients and our staff
so hopefully they they are now will be
in the South receiving Medical Services
which is by the way the situation in the
south is not very well because basically
we also run Al Hospital uh which is also
have um announced yesterday at at the
evening that Al Amal Hospital the major
generator also was shut down because
running out of a fuel so basically all
hospitals whether in the North or
whether in the in the South are facing
the same threat the same risk which is
running out of a fuel and are in urgent
need for fuel to have electricity I just
want to highlight the other main
hospital in the north alifa we've been
hearing a lot about the dire situation
there and I believe we got some of the
latest pictures from inside alifa
hospital that we're playing now you can
see many many people lying in the
corridors we know that thousand thousand
of people are Sheltering in this
Hospital they're in the dark because
there is no power in that hospital noal
we know that this is another hospital
that's been surrounded by Israeli forces
and it's coming under Fire it's coming
under attack also that there are dozens
of premature babies in this Hospital
whose lives are hanging by a thread do
you know any update on on the babies
there or what the situation is inside
alifer at the moment
so basically the same picture I have
draw to Al's hospital is the same for AA
Hospital which has been ped isolated
completely from land and from Air as
well no one can get into aifa hospital
no one can go out of aifa Hospital any
human being is just moving in that area
will be a target for Israeli tanks
unfortunately people staff patients
doctors nurses medical staff are trapped
inside the hospital with no food no
water no no power and simply nothing
they barely can afford taking care of
those patients and wounded people as
well as every single minute put in a
risk a lives of a premature baby or a
patient in the ICU the situation is
disaster is catastrophic this is the
situation now for all hospitals in Gaza
they have isolated us this was the plan
from the beginning of the escalation
when they started issuing the evacuation
orders against the hospitals we have
refused evacuation orders we have stayed
along with our patients wounded people
for the last second what they have done
is preventing aid from getting into the
hospitals isolating the hospitals
attacking the hospitals surrounding the
hospitals cutting off communication
landlines Powers everything so now we're
in a dire situation those hospitals have
been left alone without being able to
continue providing their life saving
Services we have receiving tens of calls
even in the area that is surrounding of
a shifa hospital for people trapped in
their homes they can't even evacuate
their homes because Israeli tanks in the
area and they simply Target anyone who
tried to move in this area unfortunately
the dire situation not only for those
hospitals because if you just think
about it that means people who are
killed under continuous bombardments
that is taking place in Gaza and the
north have been left alone without
getting Medical Services because
basically there is no hospitals to
receive them I just said it's one
Hospital which is al- madani Hospital
which has been bombarded at the
beginning of the escalation with with
two doctors and then in the north we
have ala hospital and the Indonesian
Hospital which is also both in a dire
situation with no power so basically if
you need medical services you not going
to find any hospital to receive you and
giving you the medical service that you
need on top of that the Emergency
Medical Services is dire we have only
five ambulances out of 18 to serve both
Gaza and the north we have receiving
hundreds of calls for people tra in
their homes with no food no water no
power on top of that there's people who
are killed trapped in their homes I I
have just accidentally went to our
Dispatch Center to check to check on our
staff at Al's hospital because I said
complete cut of communication and at
that moment they got a call from a woman
she was in a desperate situation crying
asking for urgent help because there was
five family members who are killed and
trapped in their homes they even can't
go out of the home to bury those people
five people five other family members
were injured and they are in urgent need
to get medical services as well as in
total they are 25 family members who
need to be evacuated they wanted to go
out of their homes but simply they are
trapped by Israeli tanks that Target
every human being that is walking and
unfortunately as a humanitarian
organization we feel helpless we can't
do nothing we can't even R reach those
people who are in desperate need for our
medical services and only have been left
alone because Israel tanks Target every
ambulance every paramedic try to reach
these areas where Israeli tanks are
existed so we have called on again and
again to the International Community to
ensure our safe access to the wounded
people and those who are in need so we
can continue providing our life- saving
Services no words no words in the
vocabulary that could describe the
desperate situation for all Palestinians
whether they are live in Gaza and the
North or even the South even in the
South now people are struggling to have
food water everything I just said even
our Hospital in the house has went out
of service nebal faac we do have to
leave it there terrible situation that
you're describing to us and you are
having to hear it from those hundreds of
people who are calling your organization
every day thank you very much taking the
time to speak to us to try and share
some of anguish that people in the Gaza
Strip are feeling nebal fasac thanks
very much from the Palestine red
crescent